# python-challenge
In this challenge, I analyzed two files from csv data. The first file was doing a financial analysis from  budget data to analyze profit and losses, The second one was doing an election alysis from election data to analyze the number of votes of each candidate,  and find the winner of an election.

PyBank Analysis Summary

For this exercise, I was tasked to analyze the financial records a company, so I created a Python script to do it. I was given a financial dataset from a csv file, called budget_data.csv. The dataset had two columns, one for a date entry every month, and the other was the the Profit and Losses on that date.  The dates first needed to be formatted to a month(first three letters/last two digits of the year. The data was recorded for 86 months, or 7 years and 2 months. Over that period of time, the total profits and losses were $22,564,198. Out of that amount, the average change between month to month was a total of $-8311.11(loss). I was also tasked with finding the greatest increase in profits from month to month, as well as the greatest decrease. My findings were that the greatest increase was for the month of August of 2016, and the greatest decrease was for the month February in 2014. The results were then exported to a text file so it would be easier to understand.

PyPoll Analysis Summary

In this exercise, I was tasked with helping a small, rural town modernize its vote-counting process.To do it, I was given a csv file of election data. The dataset was composed of three columns: Voter ID, County, and Candidate. I created a Python script that would analyze the votes and calculate the voting numbers for each candidate, and the eventual winner. For the results, I found that there were 369,711 votes cast. Three candidates recieved votes, with Charles Casper Stockham getting 23.049% of the vote, (85,213 votes), Diana DeGette receiving 73.812% of the votes, (272,892 votes), and Raymon Anthony Doane ended up with 3.139% of the votes, (11,606 votes) The winner of the election based on popular vote was Diana DeGette. All of the results were then exported to a text file so it would be easier to understand.
